Execution of Java Servlets

Execution of Servlets basically involves Six basic steps: 

    The Clients send the request to the Web Server.
    The Web Server receives the request.
    The Web Server passes the request to the corresponding servlet.
    The Servlet processes the request and generates the response in the form of output.
    The Servlet sends the response back to the webserver.
    The Web Server sends the response back to the client and the client browser displays it on the screen.

The Servlet Container

Servlet container, also known as Servlet engine, is an integrated set of objects that provide a run time environment for Java Servlet components. In simple words, it is a system that manages Java Servlet components on top of the Web server to handle the Web client requests.

Services provided by the Servlet container: 

    Network Services: Loads a Servlet class. The loading may be from a local file system, a remote file system or other network services. The Servlet container provides the network services over which the request and response are sent.
    Decode and Encode MIME-based messages: Provides the service of decoding and encoding MIME-based messages.
    Manage Servlet container: Manages the lifecycle of a Servlet.
    Resource management Manages the static and dynamic resources, such as HTML files, Servlets, and JSP pages.
    Security Service: Handles authorization and authentication of resource access.
    Session Management: Maintains a session by appending a session ID to the URL path.

How to configure a Java Servlet?

    Configuration of Java Servlet is defined inside a deployment descriptor file – web.xml.

What is a Servlet Filter?
    A Servlet Filter is an additional component for performing pre-post processing work on the web requests like logging, monitoring, debugging and troubleshooting.

How web container handles the servlet request?

The web container is responsible to handle the request. Let's see how it handles the request.

    maps the request with the servlet in the web.xml file.
    creates request and response objects for this request
    calls the service method on the thread
    The public service method internally calls the protected service method
    The protected service method calls the doGet method depending on the type of request.
    The doGet method generates the response and it is passed to the client.
    After sending the response, the web container deletes the request and response objects. The thread is contained in the thread pool or deleted depends on the server implementation.
